March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization made an announcement.
"During the last two weeks
has the number of incidents of COVID-19 outside China
thirteen times.
COVID-19 can now be classified as a pandemic. "
The coronavirus, or at least COVID-19, already has China, South Korea, Iran, and
Italy overwhelmed.
Thus, it is a warning to other countries where the virus is now spreading rapidly.
Over the coming days and weeks, we expect the number of cases, deaths and countries
which is accepted to increase.
The spread of COVID-19 is no longer something we can prevent.
But this is something that can slow us down.
We must eat now.
Someone with COVID-19 usually develops fever, tiredness and cough.
Cramps, pains and other moderate symptoms are also possible but are less likely.
The severity of the symptoms varies. And some people infected with the virus
may not show symptoms at all.
In 80% of cases, people experience only moderate symptoms.
Although in 20% of cases, we see that the infection manifests in a more serious way.
Generally, 1 to 2% of known cases appear to lead to death. But that death rate is
lower for young people, and much higher for the elderly.
The virus is also highly contagious - much more contagious than flu.
After infection, it can take up to 5-6 days to feel ill and you
symptoms first begin to appear.
But you can already spread the virus to other people during that time, even if you feel healthy.
The moment people realize that they are sick, this is the time when they are
the greatest risk is to light others.
This is why the virus is so effective in spreading around the world.
So that's why the WHO now declares COVID-19 a pandemic.
What they shared next is just as important.
"We can't explain it any more seriously.
All countries can still influence the rate of the pandemic. "
It depends on what each of us as an individual has to do.
In any hospital, the capacity to treat patients is limited by the number of beds the hospital has.
Think about the number of beds in your local hospital at any given time.
There are already a lot of patients receiving treatment for things like injuries they sustained during a car accident.
Or, a stroke.
The dot refers to one person who is healthy and decides to go out as normal.
They hop on the train and go to the office. There they become infected with COVID-19.
But they do not immediately feel ill, and may not feel ill for several days.
Later, they decide to go out to a basketball game.
Where they reluctantly infect two or three other people.
Most people will have a relatively moderate case, but one person may be an elderly person
whose case is going to be serious and who will eventually have to go to hospital.
But the three, who are infected but who do not feel ill, will go out again.
On the train and at the office and at work, several other people will be infected.
Twenty percent of people will need hospital care.
During the short period, repeat the process and the number of people who
should go to hospital every day.
Soon, the hospital is full and the crisis begins.
People with severe cases of COVID-19 cannot get treatment,
and people who could be saved die.
On top of that, people with other problems cannot be helped and some of those people also die.
Suddenly there is a big boom in preventable deaths.
This is exactly what happened in South Korea, Iran and Italy, all of whom are 100
after going over 5,000 cases in 2 weeks.
Many people died because they couldn't get to the hospitals.
The boom is made up of serious cases but it is done by people who are not
feeling sick did not cause, they spread the disease in public.
This means that people have the greatest impact on the prevention of unnecessary deaths.
That means we can all prevent it.
Delaying the virus means that we must act as if we are already sick.
Avoid public transport, the office, crowded places, even small gatherings of people.
You can reduce your chances of infection and spread.
This is called social descent.
If enough people apply it, the virus spreads much more slowly.
Over time, many people may still become ill but many will need hospitalization daily
and fewer people are going to overwhelm the system.
The trend line then becomes flatter, people can be treated and die less
due to.
These are the two ways the COVID-19 pandemic works.
One only happens if everyone takes their side.
This is why experts and officials are encouraging people to push the trend line through social
abandonment, and stay home as much as possible.
This is also why companies in the US help people by encouraging people to work from home
even home and major sports matches were canceled at this time.
It may seem drastic but it has worked before.
In 1918, the cities of Philadelphia and St. Louis both had a severe flu pandemic, however
both responded in different ways.
In Philadelphia, health officials have allowed a big party to continue.
While St. Louis closed schools, theaters and pubs.
Philadelphia's hospitals are overwhelmed and many more people have died.
St. Louis was able to prevent unnecessary deaths.
One hundred years later, these are also the scenarios we have to share.
The difference is not when you get coronavirus, but when you get it.
It may mean the difference between life and death for you or someone you know.
But we still have to act today.